README.md, before:

# play-jsonpath

play-jsonpath is a jsonpath implementation that works with play's json library.

  - $: start a jsonpath expression on a JsonValue
  - *: select any children of the current node
  - ?(selector): selects one or no child
  - *(selector): selects all children that meets the selector
  - %: current node
  
### Usage
For the following json document that I borrowed from [gatling]'s implementation:
```json
{ "store": {
    "book": [
      { "category": "reference",
        "author": "Nigel Rees",
        "title": "Sayings of the Century",
        "price": 8.95,
        "ratings": {
          "klass": "R"
        }
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "Evelyn Waugh",
        "title": "Sword of Honour",
        "price": 12.99,
        "published": "2015-04-07T12:00:00.000Z"
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "Herman Melville",
        "title": "Moby Dick",
        "isbn": "0-553-21311-3",
        "price": 8.99,
        "ratings": {
          "klass": "PR"
        },
        "published": "2016-04-07T12:00:00.000Z"                
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "J. R. R. Tolkien",
        "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
        "isbn": "0-395-19395-8",
        "price": 22.99
      }
    ],
    "bicycle": {
      "XGZ193-R" : {
        "color": "red",
        "price": 19.95
      },
      "XGZ193-G" : null,
      "XGZ193-B" : {
        "color": "blue",
        "price": 21.95
      }
    }
  }
}
```
select third book's klass:
```scala
scala> store.book(2).ratings.klass.as[String]
"PR"
```
select all klasses:
```scala
scala> store.book(*).ratings.klass.as[List[String]]
List("R", "PR")
```
a wild-card for this index of an array can be omitted:
```scala
scala> store.book.ratings.klass.as[List[String]]
List("R", "PR")
```
find a book with the price higher than 8.95:
```scala
scala> store.book(?(%.price > 8.95)).title.as[String]
"Sword of Honour"
```
find a book with klass of PR:
```scala
scala> store.book(?(%.ratings.klass == "PR")).title.as[String]
"Moby Dick"
```
find a blue bicylce's price:
```scala
scala> store.bicycle(?(%.color == "blue")).price.as[Double]
21.95
```
find titles of all books of the price <= 20 and the fiction category:
```scala
scala> store.book(*(%.price <= 20 && %.category == "fiction")).title.as[List[String]]
List("Sword of Honour","Moby Dick")
```
find all books' klasses:
```scala
scala> store.book.*.klass.as[List[String]]
List("R", "PR")
```

### More to customize
Suppose that your json document has ratings.class instead of ratings.klass. In scala, 'class' is a keyword that
you cannot use as a function name. Your jsonpath expression has to use 'klass'. However, you can still keep 'class'
in your json documents. Make this implicit path naming available to your code.

```scala
implicit val pathNaming = new PathNaming {
  def toJsonKey(javaKey: String) = if(javaKey == "klass") "class" else javaKey
}
```

Likewise, you can have your own Reads[Date] implemented.

```scala
implicit val dateReads = new Reads[DateTime] {
  def reads(js: JsValue) = {
    JsSuccess(new SimpleDateFormat("yyMMddHHmmssZ").parse(js.as[String]))
  }
}
```

### Samples
* [JsonPathSpec.scala] [spec]

### License
Apache 2

### Building

You need sbt installed.

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/youriris/play-jsonpath.git
$ cd play-jsonpath
$ sbt eclipse
```

[spec]: <https://github.com/youriris/play-jsonpath/blob/master/src/test/scala/org/jiris/JsonPathSpec.scala>
[gatling]: <https://github.com/gatling/jsonpath>

Commit message:

added documentation about macro use

README.md, after:

# play-jsonpath

play-jsonpath is a jsonpath implementation that works with play's json library.

  - $: start a jsonpath expression on a JsonValue
  - *: select any children of the current node
  - ?(selector): selects one or no child
  - *(selector): selects all children that meets the selector
  - %: current node
  
### Usage
For the following json document that I borrowed from [gatling]'s implementation:
```json
{ "store": {
    "book": [
      { "category": "reference",
        "author": "Nigel Rees",
        "title": "Sayings of the Century",
        "price": 8.95,
        "ratings": {
          "klass": "R"
        }
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "Evelyn Waugh",
        "title": "Sword of Honour",
        "price": 12.99,
        "published": "2015-04-07T12:00:00.000Z"
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "Herman Melville",
        "title": "Moby Dick",
        "isbn": "0-553-21311-3",
        "price": 8.99,
        "ratings": {
          "klass": "PR"
        },
        "published": "2016-04-07T12:00:00.000Z"                
      },
      { "category": "fiction",
        "author": "J. R. R. Tolkien",
        "title": "The Lord of the Rings",
        "isbn": "0-395-19395-8",
        "price": 22.99
      }
    ],
    "bicycle": {
      "XGZ193-R" : {
        "color": "red",
        "price": 19.95
      },
      "XGZ193-G" : null,
      "XGZ193-B" : {
        "color": "blue",
        "price": 21.95
      }
    }
  }
}
```
select third book's klass:
```scala
scala> store.book(2).ratings.klass.as[String]
"PR"
```
select all klasses:
```scala
scala> store.book(*).ratings.klass.as[List[String]]
List("R", "PR")
```
a wild-card for this index of an array can be omitted:
```scala
scala> store.book.ratings.klass.as[List[String]]
List("R", "PR")
```
find a book with the price higher than 8.95:
```scala
scala> store.book(?(%.price > 8.95)).title.as[String]
"Sword of Honour"
```
find a book with klass of PR:
```scala
scala> store.book(?(%.ratings.klass == "PR")).title.as[String]
"Moby Dick"
```
find a blue bicylce's price:
```scala
scala> store.bicycle(?(%.color == "blue")).price.as[Double]
21.95
```
find titles of all books of the price <= 20 and the fiction category:
```scala
scala> store.book(*(%.price <= 20 && %.category == "fiction")).title.as[List[String]]
List("Sword of Honour","Moby Dick")
```
find all books' klasses:
```scala
scala> store.book.*.klass.as[List[String]]
List("R", "PR")
```

### More to customize
Suppose that your json document has ratings.class instead of ratings.klass. In scala, 'class' is a keyword that
you cannot use as a function name. Your jsonpath expression has to use 'klass'. However, you can still keep 'class'
in your json documents. Make this implicit path naming available to your code.

```scala
implicit val pathNaming = new PathNaming {
  def toJsonKey(javaKey: String) = if(javaKey == "klass") "class" else javaKey
}
```

Likewise, you can have your own Reads[Date] implemented.

```scala
implicit val dateReads = new Reads[DateTime] {
  def reads(js: JsValue) = {
    JsSuccess(new SimpleDateFormat("yyMMddHHmmssZ").parse(js.as[String]))
  }
}
```

### What's next
Scala macro version is currently under development on v1.1. The scala dynamics is used only during compile time to allow dynamic key names. By the time compilation completes, the scala AST code is converted into play framework's **$bslash** functions.

```scala
scala> store.book.ratings.klass.as[List[String]]
```
The above code block is re-written to the following during compilation, thus removing the runtime overhead of scala dynamics.
```scala
scala> (store \ "book" \ "ratings" \ "klass").as[List[String]]
```

Jsonpath macro function is backward compatible. To enable the macro, you need to either call **PathMacro.$()** or **PathMacro.pathMacro()**.

```scala
scala> import PathMacro._
scala> ${js.$.store.book.ratings.klass}.as[List[String]]
```
where **js** is the JsValue instance. **pathMacro()** allows to use an entire code block without calling **$()** over and over.
```scala
scala> import PathMacro._
scala> pathMacro{
scala>   store.bicycle(?(%.color == "blue")).price.as[Double] mustBe 21.95
scala>   store.book(?(%.category == "non-fiction")).price.getOrElse(0.0) mustBe 0.0
scala> }
```
### Samples
* [JsonPathSpec.scala] [spec]

### License
Apache 2

### Building

You need sbt installed.

```sh
$ git clone https://github.com/youriris/play-jsonpath.git
$ cd play-jsonpath
$ sbt eclipse
```

[spec]: <https://github.com/youriris/play-jsonpath/blob/master/src/test/scala/org/jiris/JsonPathSpec.scala>
[gatling]: <https://github.com/gatling/jsonpath>
